# Notes

When buying a microcontroller for development, we buy just enough and not much more. The reason is because extra will cost more, and we know exactly what the board will do: the board will do certain purpose and run exactly one program for the rest of its life. Plus, too powerful will take a lot more power which we don't want to

How do you find a microcontroller that meet your need? You go to the website (like Digikey) and select your options: you want 15 pin, 5 Mhz of speed, can sense movement, etc.

Memory has many parts:

- permanent storage (like flash storage) to mainly store the instructions
- stack
- data plane: need to store the data generate by the processor. Is the RAM and needed to be calculated. For example, if you collect data like wireless, you need to hold onto the data for a bit to process it or transfer the data to another devices (hence the need for data plane)

Why need to process data locally before sending it out? Well, because sending out data wirelessly take a lot of power and we want to do this as infrequently as possible

Why not have more RAM? Because extended RAM take a lot of power and more expensive. Often, only have extended flash and internal SRAM

How to measure clock per cycle instruction? Simple answer would be just write the code and measure how long the code take to run. For details, we can have specialized equipment that can measure how many cycles each function take

We can adjust clock speed with software code. Why don't we just use super fast processor and tune its speed down when we no loner need it? Well, tune down the speed and back up again take some energy and we need to take this into account

I/O pin is the connection from controller to peripheral. Think of them as wire. There are many type of pins:

- general pins that can only do true/false signal: whether something is on or off
- analog signal that can carry signal to physical device. for example, pin carry signal to speaker, or pin carry data back from a camera
- digital pin that carry data to and from another storage, like digital pin to the flash storage

How to choose which family of microcontroller to use? Each family (Texas, Intel, etc.) have their own development environment and if we choose one we may get stuck with their ecosystem